# INSTRUCTIONS BELOW ARE OUTDATED

This repo contains the [NEW website](http://www.gymlibrary.ml) for [Gym](https://github.com/openai/gym). This site is currently in Beta and we are in the process of adding/editing information. 


The documentation uses Sphinx. However, the documentation is written in regular md, NOT rst.

INSTRUCTIONS BELOW ARE OUTDATED

If you are modifying a non-environment page, please PR this repo. You may want to run `_scripts/gen_menus.py` if you are adding a new subheader to a page. Otherwise, follow the steps below:

# Instructions for modifying environment pages

## Editing an environment page

If you are editing an Atari environment, directly edit the md file in this repository. 

Otherwise, fork Gym and edit the docstring in the environment's Python file. Then, pip install your Gym fork and run `_scripts/gen_mds.py` in this repo. This will automatically generate a md documentation file for the environment.

## Adding a new environment

### Atari env

For Atari envs, add a md file into `pages/environments/atari` then complete the **other steps**.

### Non-Atari env

Ensure the environment is in Gym (or your fork). Ensure that the environment's Python file has a properly formatted markdown docstring. Pip install gym (or your fork) then run `_scripts/gen_mds.py`. This will automatically generate an md page for the environment. Then complete the **other steps**.

### Other steps

- Add the corresponding gif into the `videos/` folder of the subfolder. Follow snake_case naming convention. Alternatively, run `_scripts/gen_gifs.py`.
- Edit `_data/pages` and add your new environment. Alternatively, `run _scripts/gen_menus` and replace the content in `_data/pages` within the #AUTOGENERATED comments with what is printed out.
