---
AUTOGENERATED: DO NOT EDIT FILE DIRECTLY
layout: env
title: Acrobot
grid:
   - Action Space: Discrete(3)
   - Observation Shape: (6,)
   - Observation High: [ 1.    1.    1.    1.   12.57 28.27]
   - Observation Low: [ -1.    -1.    -1.    -1.   -12.57 -28.27]
   - Import: <code>gym.make("Acrobot-v1")</code>
---
Acrobot is a 2-link pendulum with only the second joint actuated.
Initially, both links point downwards. The goal is to swing the
end-effector at a height at least the length of one link above the base.
Both links can swing freely and can pass by each other, i.e., they don't
collide when they have the same angle.
**STATE:**
The state consists of the sin() and cos() of the two rotational joint
angles and the joint angular velocities :
[cos(theta1) sin(theta1) cos(theta2) sin(theta2) thetaDot1 thetaDot2].
For the first link, an angle of 0 corresponds to the link pointing downwards.
The angle of the second link is relative to the angle of the first link.
An angle of 0 corresponds to having the same angle between the two links.
A state of [1, 0, 1, 0, ..., ...] means that both links point downwards.
**ACTIONS:**
The action is either applying +1, 0 or -1 torque on the joint between
the two pendulum links.
.. note::
    The dynamics equations were missing some terms in the NIPS paper which
    are present in the book. R. Sutton confirmed in personal correspondence
    that the experimental results shown in the paper and the book were
    generated with the equations shown in the book.
    However, there is the option to run the domain with the paper equations
    by setting book_or_nips = 'nips'
**REFERENCE:**
.. seealso::
    R. Sutton: Generalization in Reinforcement Learning:
    Successful Examples Using Sparse Coarse Coding (NIPS 1996)
.. seealso::
    R. Sutton and A. G. Barto:
    Reinforcement learning: An introduction.
    Cambridge: MIT press, 1998.
.. warning::
    This version of the domain uses the Runge-Kutta method for integrating
    the system dynamics and is more realistic, but also considerably harder
    than the original version which employs Euler integration,
    see the AcrobotLegacy class.