---
AUTOGENERATED: DO NOT EDIT FILE DIRECTLY
title: Car Racing
---

# Car Racing

```{figure} ../../_static/videos/box2d/car_racing.gif 
:width: 200px
:name: car_racing
```

This environment is part of the <a href='..'>Box2D environments</a>. Please read that page first for general information.

|   |   |
|---|---|
| Action Space | Box([-1.  0.  0.], 1.0, (3,), float32) |
| Observation Shape | (96, 96, 3) |
| Observation High | 255 |
| Observation Low | 0 |
| Import | `gym.make("CarRacing-v1")` | 


### Description
The easiest continuous control task to learn from pixels - a top-down
racing environment. Discrete control is reasonable in this environment as
well; on/off discretization is fine.

The game is solved when the agent consistently gets 900+ points.
The generated track is random every episode.

Some indicators are shown at the bottom of the window along with the
state RGB buffer. From left to right: true speed, four ABS sensors,
steering wheel position, and gyroscope.
To play yourself (it's rather fast for humans), type:
```
python gym/envs/box2d/car_racing.py
```
Remember: it's a powerful rear-wheel drive car - don't press the accelerator
and turn at the same time.

### Action Space
There are 3 actions: steering (-1 is full left, +1 is full right), gas,
and breaking.

### Observation Space
State consists of 96x96 pixels.

### Rewards
The reward is -0.1 every frame and +1000/N for every track tile visited,
where N is the total number of tiles visited in the track. For example,
if you have finished in 732 frames, your reward is
1000 - 0.1*732 = 926.8 points.

### Starting State
The car starts at rest in the center of the road.

### Episode Termination
The episode finishes when all of the tiles are visited. The car can also go
outside of the playfield - that is, far off the track, in which case it will
receive -100 reward and die.

### Arguments
There are no arguments supported in constructing the environment.

### Version History
- v0: Current version

### References
- Chris Campbell (2014), http://www.iforce2d.net/b2dtut/top-down-car.

### Credits
Created by Oleg Klimov
